.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH TUIO __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__

.SH NAME
tuio \- Multitouch TUIO Linux input driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qInputDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q\" devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qtuio\*q"
.BI "  Option \*qPort\*q   \*q" 3333 \*q
.BI "  Option \*qSubDevices\*q   \*q" 5 \*q
.BI "  Option \*qPostButtonEvents\*q   \*q" True \*q
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tuio
is an __xservername__ input driver. It listens for TUIO data on a specified 
port (see SYNOPSIS) and relays these events as X input events across multiple 
subdevices.  Because TUIO is a multitouch protocol, and because there is currently no 
way to send native multitouch events, regular input events must be sent through
multiple devices. To facilitate this, the driver creates new devices (dubbed
subdevices) through HAL that it will use for the sole purpose of sending events
through.  In MPX/XI2, it is most effective to attach these subdevices to their
own master devices (see Tuio Monitor Daemon, or tmd, for automation of this 
process).

For more information on the TUIO protocol, see http://www.tuio.org/
.PP

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
TUIO based devices (this is more of a software requirement than anything)
.PP

.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
This section covers configuration details for this driver.
.PP
The following driver options are supported:
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qPort\*q \*q" integer \*q
Sets the UDP port to listen for TUIO messages on.  Must be a valid
port number.
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qSubDevices\*q \*q" integer \*q
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qPostButtonEvents\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable/disable button down/up events.

.SH SUPPORTED PROPERTIES
The following properties are provided by the
.B tuio
driver.

NONE

.SH AUTHORS
Ryan Huffman <ryanhuffman@gmail.com>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__),
.
